Let's do the part two of
this exercise together.
So the part two is that we
are going to make everything anime.
So let's get the first thing going
which is that when in flower
animates in, we are going to fade it in.
So the very first thing we want to make
sure to do is that we are going to,
Set the opacity on the group element.
So let's go ahead and set the opacity
to 0 on the enter selection.
There's that and then we want
the opacity to go to 1
after the animation.
And so let's go ahead and come down here,
create our transition,
pass in our T that we've defined up top.
And we're going to say
that we want the capacity
to animate from 0 to 1.
And just a side note that we could have
actually put this in the enter selection
because it really is just the enter
selection that we want to be feeding in.
But since we're going to be
doing the animation.transition
call down here anyways,
it's just saves one or
two lines to be doing it on
the enter an update selection.
For this on the update selections nothing
happens because with the update selections
the opacity is already 1 so
it's going from 1 to 1.
But for the enter selection in here,
it's going to go from 0 to 1.
So actually let's take a look at if
this is doing what we expect it to.
And, So we're definitely
seeing the animating to the new position.
Definitely seen that.
So let's see what happens if we,
wooh, did you see that?
My laptop's like,
please stop making me do all this stuff.
Okay, so what you might have
seen is that it did feed in but
also because we hadn't specified an X or
Y we hadn't specified the translate
on our enter selection.
It defaulted to all of
the flowers being on 0,0 and
that's why everything kind
of just like animated in,
everything that got newly created,
they got animated in from the top left.
So let's go and fix that, and
I'm just going to be, because I'm lazy,
I'm gonna just copy it and paste it here.
And so this, everything in here is going
to be the state A that we transition from,
because it is before
the .transition is called.
And then the last thing we want to do
is go ahead into our exit selection.
So let's go ahead and
do nothing with the update selection.
This is a comma and
then go into our exit selection.
And we want to save that.
We want to have those exit elements,
those elements being removed to go from 1
opacity 100 to opacity 0, so
it currently has opacity 1.
So we're going to say transition,
and we're going to say opacity,
0, and then we're going to
chain remove on that and
d3 knows to only remove the DOM
element once this transition finishes.
So now let's take a look.
Let's, I don't know if you saw ooh,
look at that.
So this is maybe a little
bit hard to see but
you can see that some of
the flowers got faded out and
then some got faded in and they
definitely all move to their new place.
So there's this lesson all done.
I hope it was fun.
I think this is one of the more
exciting exercises where we get
to kind of see some animations and
we get to filter down on our flowers.
Yeah, so
we've implemented a filter by option.